---
title: "why Do People Stop Running?"
date: "2023-04-07"
description: "Some thoughts from someone who has stopped and started running more times that I can count"
---


Why do people stop running? I have been talking about this with Squatty (Elisa) and figured it might be worth writing about.

First off, I think most people start running and never find a community of runners. Squatty and I talk to each other every single day, I am not even close to exaggerating, and 99.99 percent of our conversations are about running. We talk about races coming up, races we want to do, training, costumes, custom shirts, nutrition, jokes about running, runners we admire, runners we think are toxic (I’m looking at you Candice), ab workout, mobility – we talk about running nonstop. I think that this is helpful for a couple of reasons. Number one, it’s nice to have someone to talk to about your hobbies. When we talk, we learn new things, learn about new races, think about different goals we want to meet and so on. It is also nice to have some accountability. We check in with the workouts we have for each day, ask how they went, encourage each other, support each other through injuries, or shitty runs. I also run with TMIRCE, so I have a group of people that I also interact with at least once a week and enjoy that community and Squatty also is on a local running committee. Squatty’s husband, Dr. Pockets, also runs, so I know that she has that outlet as well and I often text him as well and when we all get together, we mostly just talk about running. If you’re not a runner, in fact, you might not enjoy our company, but I think we have all decided that is ok at this point. Am I saying that you need to stop talking to your other friends and find someone who is as obsessed with running as we are? No. I am saying that it’s going to be helpful to find some friends who have the same interest as you. Community is so important, and I think when people don’t have the community or any form of accountability it’s easy to skip a run here or there, and then maybe a couple more runs and then eventually stop all together. 

Second, running hurts. It took me running on and off for years to finally get to where I am now- I can honestly say I love running. Before this though, running HURT and I didn’t love it in any capacity, I am not even sure I liked it. When you start running every part of it sucks. It’s hard to breathe, your legs hurt, you’re tired, it feels like you’re going so slow, it’s not enjoyable. For running to be fun, you must train. You have to get past the point of running being nothing but discomfort to it becoming something you enjoy. Once you’re able to run a few miles comfortably, then it becomes fun to see if you can run faster, to set PRs, to sign up for longer distance races. I am not saying that running is always easy, but it will get to a point where you know you can do it. You will be able to talk when you’re running and have conversations with a partner on a run if you want, you might find races that are fun like the color me rad run or the bubble run, you’ll be able to do things that you didn’t think you could do before and what could be more fun than that? 

To piggyback off running being painful, I also think that people don’t run in the right shoes with just makes running more uncomfortable and could make someone give up running. Your feet are your most important tool when you’re running and there isn’t a lot of gear needed to go for a run- in fact that’s probably why so many people start. But it is important to invest some money in shoes. I have talked about this before but go to your local running store and get fitted. This will increase your comfort and hopefully be one less barrier for someone who is looking to run long term.
Third, I think a lot of people start running to lose weight and that might be a good goal to get into running initially, but I find if that is someone’s only motivation, they tend to stop. I am speaking from experience when I say this. Many years ago when I started running it was to lose weight. Once I lost a few pounds, I typically stopped running, then I would gain it back and start running again. This was a vicious cycle for a long time. On my current journey, my goal is to complete a marathon, not to lose weight. I just so happen to be losing weight along the way. If you are running to improve your distance or times, your body actually needs a decent amount of food to fuel these goals, so it would actually be counterintuitive for a competitive runner to seek a caloric deficit. I tend to be in one due to the volume of my training, but I eat a lot more than I ever had when I was training. My diet is carb heavy, and this is something that I would shy away from in the beginning of my journey, ya know because diet culture has made people terrified of potatoes. Runners need carbs, and most successful, long-term runners are eating a high carb diet. If your goal is to lose weight, there are so many easier ways to do this, starting with just adjusting your diet. You can hit goal weight by monitoring your food and nothing else and of course there are other types of exercise that someone could implement to do so. I am not discouraging anyone who wants to lose weight from running, but I am suggesting that if that is your focus, you might not stick with running after your goal is met. I know even post marathon, I have another couple of marathons lined up with plenty of half marathons in between. My goals don’t just stop once the scale reads a certain number of and I think that is going to keep me running much longer than I ever have before- spoiler alert, it already has. 

The last reason (for now) that I think people stop running is because people don’t know how to train. When I did my first half marathon, I picked whatever 16-week program I found online and just followed it. I didn’t do any base building of milage, I was running too fast during my runs and the program catered to me at all- all combined makes sense why after my first half marathon I stopped running for 5 years. There is a reason there are couch to 5k plans and not couch to half marathon plans- you need to have some experience running to make sure your body can handle the increases of long runs during your training. When all is said and done and if everything goes to plan (fingers crossed) I will have spent 16 months training for the marathon and I am doing my first half marathon now after 9 months of training. I also work with a coach to ensure that I am running the right amount, the right speed, I let her know if I am sick or not feeling fresh and she adjusts my program accordingly. All of these things matter and have made sure that my time training has been effective and fun- I have enjoyed training so much so far and all of this is because I didn’t just find a generic program and try to follow it. Learning how to train is key to success and can really change how someone feels about running.

There are of course so many more reasons why people stop running, but these are some reasons why I have stopped before. Running is just like anything else you want to get good at, you need to practice. It won’t always be easy or fun, but I promise you, once you start doing things you never thought you could do before it will change your outlook completely. So, find a running partner, or group, or coach and ease into it and before you know it you’ll be smashing all of your running related goals in no time. 
